Blazor Hybrid dev tools topic (#25384)
dotnet/AspNetCore.Docs: aspnetcore/blazor/hybrid/handle-errors.md

1. Start the Android emulator and navigate to an app page that uses a `BlazorWebView`.
1. Open Google Chrome or Microsoft Edge.
1. Navigate to `chrome://inspect/#devices` (Google Chrome) or `edge://inspect/#devices` (Microsoft Edge).
1. Select the **`inspect`** link button to open developer tools. The following example shows the **DevTools** page in Microsoft Edge:

   ![Microsoft Edge Devices showing the BlazorWebView's "inspect" link button to open developer tools.](~/blazor/hybrid/handle-errors/_static/android.png)

1. Developer tools provide a variety of features for working with apps, including which assets the page requested, how long assets took to load, and the content of loaded assets. The following example shows the **Console** tab to see the console messages, which includes any exception messages generated by the framework or developer code:

   ![Microsoft Edge DevTools window for a Blazor Hybrid app running on an emulated Pixel 5](~/blazor/hybrid/handle-errors/_static/edge1.png)

:::zone-end

:::zone pivot="ios"

To use Safari developer tools with an iOS app:

1. Open desktop Safari.
1. Select the **Preferences** > **Advanced** > **Show Develop** menu item.

> 1. Run the .NET MAUI Blazor app in the iOS simulator.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Run the .NET MAUI Blazor app in the iOS simulator and navigate to an app page that uses a `BlazorWebView`.
```

1. Return to desktop Safari. Select **Develop** > **Simulator** > **0.0.0.0**. If multiple entries for **0.0.0.0** are present, select the entry that highlights the `BlazorWebView`. The `BlazorWebView` is highlighted in blue in the iOS simulator when the correct **0.0.0.0** entry is selected.

   ![Safari Develop Simulator open showing two entries for "0.0.0.0" with the second entry selected because it highlights the BlazorWebView in the Visual Studio emulator UI.](~/blazor/hybrid/handle-errors/_static/ios.png)

1. The **Web Inspector** window appears for the `BlazorWebView`.
1. Developer tools provide a variety of features for working with apps, including which assets the page requested, how long assets took to load, and the content of loaded assets. The following example shows the **Console** tab, which includes any exception messages generated by the framework or developer code:

   ![Safari Web Inspector and Simulator windows for a Blazor Hybrid app running on an emulated iPad mini](~/blazor/hybrid/handle-errors/_static/safari1.png)

:::zone-end

:::zone pivot="macos"

To use Safari developer tools with a macOS app:

1. Open desktop Safari.

> 1. Select the **Preferences** > **Advanced** > **Show Develop** menu item.

Reviewer: Was just trying this out and I was mistaken there is a bit more nuance than just the iOS steps. Looking into this and will update...

Reviewer: Looks like this may be a regression on Mac/Safari: https://apple.stackexchange.com/questions/416277/how-to-inspect-safari-web-inspector-aka-devtools-on-devtools

Looking for workarounds...

Reviewer: Okay this looks like a genuine bug. Can we just remove the macos section entirely for now?

Bug: https://github.com/dotnet/maui/issues/5561

1. Run the .NET MAUI Blazor app in the macOS simulator.
1. Return to desktop Safari. Select **Develop** > **Simulator** > **0.0.0.0**. If multiple entries for **0.0.0.0** are present, select the entry that highlights the `BlazorWebView`. The `BlazorWebView` is highlighted in blue in the macOS simulator when the correct **0.0.0.0** entry is selected.
1. The **Web Inspector** window appears for the `BlazorWebView`.
1. Developer tools provide a variety of features for working with apps, including which assets the page requested, how long assets took to load, and the content of loaded assets. The following example shows the **Console** tab, which includes any exception messages generated by the framework or developer code:

   ![Safari Web Inspector for a Blazor Hybrid app](~/blazor/hybrid/handle-errors/_static/safari2.png)

:::zone-end

:::zone pivot="windows"

To use browser developer tools with a Windows app:

> 1. Start the app with the **Windows Machine** Start button.
> 1. Navigate to a page that uses the `BlazorWebView`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Run the .NET MAUI Blazor app for Windows and navigate to an app page that uses a `BlazorWebView`.
```

To keep consistent with other platforms, I don't think we need to discuss the means by which to start the application here.

---
title: Handle errors in ASP.NET Core Blazor Hybrid
author: guardrex
description: Learn how to develop ASP.NET Core Blazor Hybrid apps that detect and handle errors.
monikerRange: '>= aspnetcore-6.0'
ms.author: riande
ms.custom: "mvc"
ms.date: 03/24/2022
no-loc: ["Blazor Hybrid", Home, Privacy, Kestrel, appsettings.json, "ASP.NET Core Identity", cookie, Cookie, Blazor, "Blazor Server", "Blazor WebAssembly", "Identity", "Let's Encrypt", Razor, SignalR]
uid: blazor/hybrid/handle-errors
zone_pivot_groups: blazor-hybrid-operating-systems
---
# Handle errors in ASP.NET Core Blazor Hybrid

This article explains how to use [browser developer tools](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Glossary/Developer_Tools) with Blazor Hybrid apps.

[!INCLUDE[](~/blazor/includes/blazor-hybrid-preview-notice.md)]

## Browser developer tools with .NET MAUI Blazor

> Ensure your current Blazor Hybrid project is configured to support browser developer tools. Add the following to your `CreateMauiApp` method. The `CreateMauiApp` method should be within your main `Program` or `Startup` file and contain `services.AddMauiBlazorWebView()`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Ensure your current Blazor Hybrid project is configured to support browser developer tools. Add the following to your `CreateMauiApp` method if it is not already present. The `CreateMauiApp` method should be within your main `Program` or `Startup` file and contain `services.AddMauiBlazorWebView()`.
```

> Ensure your current Blazor Hybrid project is configured to support browser developer tools. Add the following to your `CreateMauiApp` method. The `CreateMauiApp` method should be within your main `Program` or `Startup` file and contain `services.AddMauiBlazorWebView()`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Ensure your current Blazor Hybrid project is configured to support browser developer tools. Add the following to your `CreateMauiApp` method. The `CreateMauiApp` method is likely within your main `Program` or `Startup` file and contain `services.AddMauiBlazorWebView()`.
```

> Ensure your current Blazor Hybrid project is configured to support browser developer tools. Add the following to your `CreateMauiApp` method if it is not already present. The `CreateMauiApp` method should be within your main `Program` or `Startup` file and contain `services.AddMauiBlazorWebView()`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Ensure your current Blazor Hybrid project is configured to support browser developer tools. Add the following to your `CreateMauiApp` method if it is not already present. The `CreateMauiApp` method is likely within your main `Program` or `Startup` file and contain `services.AddMauiBlazorWebView()`.
```

> Ensure your current Blazor Hybrid project is configured to support browser developer tools. Add the following to your `CreateMauiApp` method if it is not already present. The `CreateMauiApp` method is likely within your main `Program` or `Startup` file and contain `services.AddMauiBlazorWebView()`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Ensure your current Blazor Hybrid project is configured to support browser developer tools. Add the following to your `CreateMauiApp` method if it is not already present. The `CreateMauiApp` method is likely within your main `Program` or `Startup` file and contains `services.AddMauiBlazorWebView()`.
```

```csharp
#if DEBUG
    services.AddBlazorWebViewDeveloperTools();
#endif

> ```
> 
> :::zone pivot="windows"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> [!NOTE]
> Guidance on popular browsers' developer tools can be found in the documentation of each browser maintainer:
>
> * [Chrome DevTools](https://developer.chrome.com/docs/devtools/)
> * [Microsoft Edge Developer Tools overview](/microsoft-edge/devtools-guide-chromium/)
> * [Safari Web Inspector](https://support.apple.com/guide/safari-developer/welcome/mac)

:::zone pivot="windows"
```

> 
> :::zone pivot="windows"

Reviewer: ```suggestion

> [!NOTE]
> Guidance on popular browsers' developer tools can be found in the documentation of each browser maintainer:
>
> * [Chrome DevTools](https://developer.chrome.com/docs/devtools/)
> * [Microsoft Edge Developer Tools overview](/microsoft-edge/devtools-guide-chromium/)
> * [Safari Web Inspector](https://support.apple.com/guide/safari-developer/welcome/mac)

:::zone pivot="windows"
```

:::zone pivot="macos"

> To use Safari developer tools with a macOS app, use the instructions for [iOS](?pivots=ios).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Using browser developer tools with Mac Catalyst applications isn't currently supported. Please use the guidance for [iOS](?pivots=ios) applications as the behavior should be very similar between the two platforms..
```
